docs: scrapy-vs-crawlee blog (#2431)
apify/crawlee: website/blog/2024/04-23-scrapy-vs-crawlee/index.md

Then, create a spider with this code to scrape the data:

```py
    import scrapy

    class ActorSpider(scrapy.Spider):
        name = 'actor_spider'
        start_urls = ['https://apify.com/store']

        def start_requests(self):
            for url in self.start_urls:
                yield scrapy.Request(
                    url,
                    meta={"playwright": True, "playwright_include_page": True},
                    callback=self.parse_playwright
                )

        async def parse_playwright(self, response):
            page = response.meta['playwright_page']
            await page.wait_for_selector('.ActorStoreItem-title-wrapper')
            actor_card = await page.query_selector('.ActorStoreItem-title-wrapper')
            
            if actor_card:
                actor_text = await actor_card.text_content()
                yield {
                    'actor': actor_text.strip() if actor_text else 'N/A'
                }

>             await page.close()

Reviewer: remove the indent, you either need the indent or the code fences (the ` ``` ` boundaries), not both, this would result in the code being indented

```

In Crawlee, you can scrape JavaScript rendered websites using the built-in headless [Puppeteer](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/) and [Playwright](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright) browsers. It is important to note that, by default, Crawlee scrapes in headless mode. If you don't want headless, then just set `headless: false`.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

> import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Reviewer: this should be at the top of the file, right after the frontmatter

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="javscript" label="Playwright">

```js
import { PlaywrightCrawler } from 'crawlee';

const crawler = new PlaywrightCrawler({
    async requestHandler({ page }) {
        const actorCard = page.locator('.ActorStoreItem-title-wrapper').first();
        const actorText = await actorCard.textContent();
        await crawler.pushData({ 
            'actor': actorText 
        });
    },
});

await crawler.run(['https://apify.com/store']);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Puppeteer">

```js
import { PuppeteerCrawler } from 'crawlee';

const crawler = new PuppeteerCrawler({
    async requestHandler({ page }) {
        await page.waitForSelector('.ActorStoreItem-title-wrapper');
        const actorText = await page.$eval('.ActorStoreItem-title-wrapper', (el) => {
            return el.textContent;
        });
        await crawler.pushData({ 
            'actor': actorText 
        });
    },
});

await crawler.run(['https://apify.com/store']);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> 

Reviewer: there are several places where you have more than one blank line, it should be only one blank line, always

### Autoscaling Support

Autoscaling refers to the capability of a library to automatically adjusting the number of concurrent tasks (such as browser instances, HTTP requests, etc.) based on the current load and system resources. This feature is particularly useful when handling web scraping and crawling tasks that may require dynamically scaled resources to optimize performance, manage system load, and handle rate limitations efficiently.

Scrapy does not have built-in autoscaling capabilities, but it can be done using external services like [Scrapyd](https://scrapyd.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) or deployed in a distributed manner with Scrapy Cluster.

Crawlee has [built-in autoscaling](https://crawlee.dev/api/core/class/AutoscaledPool) with `AutoscaledPool`. It increases the number of requests that are processed concurrently within one crawler.

### Queue Management

Scrapy supports both breadth-first and depth-first crawling strategies using a disk-based queuing system. By default, it uses the LIFO queue for the pending requests, which means it is using depth-first order, but if you want to use breadth-first order, you can do it by changing these settings:

> ```py

Author: python.

DEPTH_PRIORITY = 1 
SCHEDULER_DISK_QUEUE = "scrapy.squeues.PickleFifoDiskQueue" 
SCHEDULER_MEMORY_QUEUE = "scrapy.squeues.FifoMemoryQueue"
```

Crawlee uses breadth-first by default and you can override it on a per-request basis by using the `forefront: true` argument in `addRequest` and its derivatives. If you use `forefront: true` for all requests, it becomes a depth-first process.

### CLI Support

Scrapy has a [powerful command-line interface](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/topics/commands.html#command-line-tool) that offers functionalities like starting a project, generating spiders, and controlling the crawling process.

Scrapy CLI comes with Scrapy. Just run this command, and you are good to go:

> `pip install scrapy`

Reviewer: probably better to use a real codeblock for this instead of an inline one

Crawlee also [includes a CLI tool](https://crawlee.dev/docs/quick-start#installation-with-crawlee-cli) (`crawlee-cli`) that facilitates project setup, crawler creation and execution, streamlining the development process for users familiar with Node.js environments. The command for installation is: 

`npx crawlee create my-crawler`
 
### Proxy Rotation and Storage Management

Scrapy handles it via custom middleware. You have to install their [`scrapy-rotating-proxies`](https://pypi.org/project/scrapy-rotating-proxies/) package using pip. 

`pip install scrapy-rotating-proxies`

Then in the `settings.py` file, add `ROTATING_PROXY_LIST` and the middleware to the `DOWNLOADER_MIDDLEWARES` and specify the list of proxy servers. For example:

```py

>     DOWNLOADER_MIDDLEWARES = {

Reviewer: remove the main indent

Author: sorry but lil confused: https://github.com/apify/crawlee/pull/2431#discussion_r1598482106

Reviewer: that comment is about codeblocks inside list items, here you don't have any list items. i guess you changed the list in favor of using headings so its no longer valid.

also the suggestion was wrong, the whole block needs to be indented, not just the code content inside it, fixed that just now

Author: got it

```js
import { ProxyConfiguration } from 'crawlee';

const proxyConfiguration = new ProxyConfiguration({
    proxyUrls: [
        'http://proxy1.example.com',
        'http://proxy2.example.com',
    ]
});
const crawler = new CheerioCrawler({
    proxyConfiguration,
    // ...
});
```

Crawlee also has [`SessionPool`](https://crawlee.dev/api/core/class/SessionPool), a built-in allocation system for proxies. It handles the rotation, creation, and persistence of user-like sessions. It creates a pool of session instances that are randomly rotated.

### Data Storage

One of the most frequently required features when implementing scrapers is being able to store the scraped data as an "export file".

Scrapy provides this functionality out of the box with the [`Feed Exports`](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/topics/feed-exports.html), which allows it to generate feeds with the scraped items, using multiple serialization formats and storage backends. It supports `CSV, JSON, JSON Lines, and XML.`

To do this, you need to modify your `settings.py` file and enter:

```py

>     # To store in CSV format 

Reviewer: dtto

    FEEDS = { 
        'data/crawl_data.csv': {'format': 'csv', 'overwrite': True} 
    }

    # OR to store in JSON format

    FEEDS = { 
        'data/crawl_data.json': {'format': 'json', 'overwrite': True} 
    }
```

Crawlee's storage can be divided into two categories: Request Storage (Request Queue and Request List) and Results Storage (Datasets and Key Value Stores). Both are stored locally by default in the `./storage` directory.

Also, remember that Crawlee, by default, clears its storages before starting a crawler run. This action is taken to prevent old data from interfering with new crawling sessions.

Let's see how Crawlee stores the result:

- You can use local storage with dataset

> ```js

Reviewer: you might want to indent the whole codeblock to have it under the list item, now it will break the list (you will have a single item list, followed by codeblock, then another single item list and another codeblock)

and when i say indent the codeblock, i really mean indent it, not just its contents, the whole codeblock

https://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/3792/how-to-nest-code-within-a-list-using-markdown

Crawlee provides HTTP crawling and [browser fingerprints](https://crawlee.dev/docs/guides/avoid-blocking) with zero configuration necessary; fingerprints are enabled by default and available in `PlaywrightCrawler` and `PuppeteerCrawler` but also work with `CheerioCrawler` and the other HTTP Crawlers. 

### Error handling

Both libraries support error-handling practices like automatic retries, logging, and custom error handling.

In Scrapy, you can handle errors using middleware and [signals](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/topics/signals.html). There are also [exceptions](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/topics/exceptions.html) like `IgnoreRequest`, which can be raised by Scheduler or any downloader middleware to indicate that the request should be ignored. Similarly, a spider callback can raise' CloseSpider' to close the spider.

Scrapy has built-in support for retrying failed requests. You can configure the retry policy (e.g., the number of retries, retrying on particular HTTP codes) via settings such as `RETRY_TIMES`, as shown in the example:

```py

>     # In settings.py

Reviewer: dtto

---
slug: scrapy-vs-crawlee
title: 'Scrapy vs. Crawlee'
description: 'Which web scraping library is best for you?'
image: ./img/scrapy-vs-crawlee.png
author: Saurav Jain
authorTitle: Developer Community Manager
authorURL: https://github.com/souravjain540
authorImageURL: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53312820?v=4
authorTwitter: sauain
---

Hey, crawling masters!

> Welcome to another post on the Crawlee blog; this time, we are going to compare Scrapy, one of the oldest and most popular web scraping libraries in the world, with Crawlee, a relative newcomer. This article will answer your usual questions about when to use Scrapy or when it would be better to use Crawlee instead. This article will be the first part of many articles comparing Crawlee with Scrapy in various technical aspects. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Welcome to another post on the Crawlee blog; this time, we are going to compare Scrapy, one of the oldest and most popular web scraping libraries in the world, with Crawlee, a relative newcomer. This article will answer your questions about when to use Scrapy and help you decide when it would be better to use Crawlee instead. This article will be the first part of many articles comparing Crawlee with Scrapy in various technical aspects. 
```

## Headless browsing and JS rendering

Scrapy does not support headless browsers natively, but it supports them with its plugin system, similarly it does not support scraping JavaScript rendered websites but with plugin system it is possible. One of the best examples of which is its [Playwright plugin](https://github.com/scrapy-plugins/scrapy-playwright/tree/main).  

Apify Store is a JavaScript rendered website, so we wil scrape it in this example using `scrapy-playwright` integration. 

1. First of all, you have to install the library by using this command: `pip install scrapy-playwright`
2. Then you need to install playwright by `playwright install`
3. Install the browsers: `playwright install firefox chromium`
4. Replace the default http and/or https Download Handlers through `DOWNLOAD_HANDLERS` in `settings.py`:

> ```py
> DOWNLOAD_HANDLERS = {
>     "http": "scrapy_playwright.handler.ScrapyPlaywrightDownloadHandler",
>     "https": "scrapy_playwright.handler.ScrapyPlaywrightDownloadHandler",
> }
> ```

Reviewer: iirc this needs to be indented, otherwise its not gonna be part of the 4. item in the list (and will most probably break the counter, so the 5. item will be rendered as 1. again)

``````suggestion
```py
    DOWNLOAD_HANDLERS = {
        "http": "scrapy_playwright.handler.ScrapyPlaywrightDownloadHandler",
        "https": "scrapy_playwright.handler.ScrapyPlaywrightDownloadHandler",
    }
```
``````

same for the other codeblocks under the 5. and 6. items

5. Install the `asyncio-bases Twisted reactor` by adding it in `settings.py`:

```py
TWISTED_REACTOR = "twisted.internet.asyncioreactor.AsyncioSelectorReactor"

> ```

Author: I can't change anything here; it is like this only in every tutorial. :(

Perfect, will do.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="js" label="Playwright">

```js
import { PlaywrightCrawler } from 'crawlee';

const crawler = new PlaywrightCrawler({
    async requestHandler({ page }) {
        const actorCard = page.locator('.ActorStoreItem-title-wrapper').first();
        const actorText = await actorCard.textContent();
        await crawler.pushData({ 
            'actor': actorText 
        });
    },
});

await crawler.run(['https://apify.com/store']);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Puppeteer">

```js
import { PuppeteerCrawler } from 'crawlee';

const crawler = new PuppeteerCrawler({
    async requestHandler({ page }) {
        await page.waitForSelector('.ActorStoreItem-title-wrapper');
        const actorText = await page.$eval('.ActorStoreItem-title-wrapper', (el) => {
            return el.textContent;
        });
        await crawler.pushData({ 
            'actor': actorText 
        });
    },
});

await crawler.run(['https://apify.com/store']);
```

> </TabItem>

Reviewer: you are missing a closing `</Tabs>` element here

`pip install scrapy`

Crawlee also [includes a CLI tool](https://crawlee.dev/docs/quick-start#installation-with-crawlee-cli) (`crawlee-cli`) that facilitates project setup, crawler creation and execution, streamlining the development process for users familiar with Node.js environments. The command for installation is: 

`npx crawlee create my-crawler`
 
### Proxy Rotation and Storage Management

Scrapy handles it via custom middleware. You have to install their [`scrapy-rotating-proxies`]((https://pypi.org/project/scrapy-rotating-proxies/)) package using pip. 

`pip install scrapy-rotating-proxies`

Then in the `settings.py` file add `ROTATING_PROXY_LIST` and the middleware to the `DOWNLOADER_MIDDLEWARES` and specify the list of proxy servers. For example:

```py
DOWNLOADER_MIDDLEWARES = {
    # Lower value means higher priority
    'scrapy.downloadermiddlewares.retry.RetryMiddleware': 90,
    'scrapy_rotating_proxies.middlewares.RotatingProxyMiddleware': 610,
    'scrapy_rotating_proxies.middlewares.BanDetectionMiddleware': 620,
}

ROTATING_PROXY_LIST = [
    'proxy1.com:8000',
    'proxy2.com:8031',
    # Add more proxies as needed
]
```

> Now create a spider with the code you want to scrape any site and the `ROTATING_PROXY_LIST` in `settings.py` will manage which proxy to use for each request.

Reviewer 3: Would be great to mention how the proxy rotation work. Is it round robin? Is there some logic behind it?

In Crawlee, you can [use your own proxy servers](https://crawlee.dev/docs/guides/proxy-management) or proxy servers acquired from third-party providers. If you already have your proxy URLs, you can start using them as easy as that:

```js
import { ProxyConfiguration } from 'crawlee';

const proxyConfiguration = new ProxyConfiguration({
    proxyUrls: [
        'http://proxy1.example.com',
        'http://proxy2.example.com',
    ]
});
const crawler = new CheerioCrawler({
    proxyConfiguration,
    // ...
});

> ```
> Crawlee also has [`SessionPool`](https://crawlee.dev/api/core/class/SessionPool), a built-in allocation system for proxies. It handles the rotation, creation, and persistence of user-like sessions. It creates a pool of Session instances that are randomly rotated.

Reviewer: keep blank lines padding around code blocks

``````suggestion
```

Crawlee also has [`SessionPool`](https://crawlee.dev/api/core/class/SessionPool), a built-in allocation system for proxies. It handles the rotation, creation, and persistence of user-like sessions. It creates a pool of Session instances that are randomly rotated.
``````

Scrapy provides this functionality out of the box with the [`Feed Exports`](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/topics/feed-exports.html), which allows to generate feeds with the scraped items, using multiple serialization formats and storage backends. It supports `csv, json, json lines, xml.`

To do this, you need to modify your `settings.py` file and enter:

```py
# To store in CSV format 
FEEDS = { 
    'data/crawl_data.csv': {'format': 'csv', 'overwrite': True} 
}

# OR to store in JSON format

FEEDS = { 
    'data/crawl_data.json': {'format': 'json', 'overwrite': True} 
}
```

Crawlee's storage can be divided into two categories: Request Storage (Request Queue and Request List) and Results Storage (Datasets and Key Value Stores). Both are stored locally by default in the `./storage` directory.

Also, remember that Crawlee, by default, clears its storages before starting a crawler run. This action is taken to prevent old data from interfering with new crawling sessions.

Let's see how Crawlee stores the result:

- You can use local storage with dataset

```js
import { PlaywrightCrawler } from 'crawlee';

const crawler = new PlaywrightCrawler({

>     requestHandler: async({ page }) => {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    requestHandler: async ({ page }) => {
```

        const title = await page.title();
        const price = await page.textContent('.price');
    
        await crawler.pushData({
            url: request.url,
            title,
            price
        });
    }
})

await crawler.run(['http://example.com']);
```

- Using Key-Value Store

```js
import { KeyValueStore } from 'crawlee';
//... Code to crawl the data

> KeyValueStore.setValue('key', { foo: 'bar' });

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
await KeyValueStore.setValue('key', { foo: 'bar' });
```

### Error handling

Both libraries support error-handling practices like automatic retries, logging, and custom error handling.

In Scrapy, you can handle errors using middleware and [signals](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/topics/signals.html). There are also [exceptions](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/topics/exceptions.html) like `IgnoreRequest`, which can be raised by Scheduler or any downloader middleware to indicate that the request should be ignored. Similarly, a spider callback can raise' CloseSpider' to close the spider.

Scrapy has built-in support for retrying failed requests. You can configure the retry policy (e.g., the number of retries, retrying on particular HTTP codes) via settings such as `RETRY_TIMES`, as shown in the example:

```py
# In settings.py
RETRY_ENABLED = True
RETRY_TIMES = 2  # Number of retry attempts
RETRY_HTTP_CODES = [500, 502, 503, 504, 522, 524]  # HTTP error codes to retry
```

In Crawlee, you can also setup your custom error handler. For retries, `maxRetries` controls how often Crawlee will retry a request before marking it as failed. To setup it in code you just need to add the following line of code in your crawler.

> ```js
> maxRetries = 3 // Crawler will retry three times.
> ```

Reviewer 3: This is confusing, because it's not valid JS syntax. I'd do at least:

```suggestion
```js
const crawler = new CheerioCrawler({
    maxRetries: 3 // Crawler will retry three times.
    // ...
})
```
```

Reviewer: also the option is called `maxRequestRetries`, not just `maxRetries`

Author: good catch, mixed it with scrapy. thanks!

## Introduction:

[Scrapy](https://scrapy.org/) is an open-source Python-based web scraping framework that extracts data from websites. In Scrapy, you create spiders, which are nothing but autonomous scripts to download and process web content. The limitation of Scrapy is that it does not work very well with JavaScript-heavy websites, as it was designed for static HTML pages. We will do a comparison later in the article about this. 

Crawlee is also an open-source library that originated as [Apify SDK](https://docs.apify.com/sdk/js/). Crawlee has the advantage of being a latecomer or, say, the latest library in the market, so it already has many features that Scrapy lacks, like autoscaling, headless browsing, working with JavaScript-heavy websites without any plugins, and many more, which we are going to explain later on.

> <!--truncate-->

Author: docusaurus markdown for preview of the blog.

## Feature comparison

There are a lot of things that we can compare between Scrapy and Crawlee. This article will be the first part of a series comparing Scrapy and Crawlee on various parameters. 

We will compare both libraries on various parameters, starting with language and development environments and essential features that make the scraping process easy for developers, like autoscaling, headless browsing, queue management, etc. 

## Language and development environments:

> Scrapy is written in Python, making it easier for the data science community to integrate it with various tools with Python. While Scrapy offers very detailed documentation, for first-timers, sometimes it takes work to start with Scrapy. One of the reasons why it is considered not so beginner-friendly is its [complex architecture](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/topics/architecture.html), which consists of various components like spiders, middleware, item pipelines, and settings. For beginners, learning all of these can be a time-consuming task.

Author: I mentioned here why it is not beginner friendly and in every article about scrapy on internet they do mention it. for example: https://towardsdatascience.com/web-scraping-with-scrapy-theoretical-understanding-f8639a25d9cd

> Scrapy is written in Python, making it easier for the data science community to integrate it with various tools with Python. While Scrapy offers very detailed documentation, for first-timers, sometimes it takes work to start with Scrapy. One of the reasons why it is considered not so beginner-friendly is its [complex architecture](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/topics/architecture.html), which consists of various components like spiders, middleware, item pipelines, and settings. For beginners, learning all of these can be a time-consuming task.

Reviewer 3: Cool, so what about adding some references like:

> ... why it is considered not so beginner-friendly [1][2][3] ...

Where 1,2,3 are links to sources, to make it clear that it's not the opinion of us at Crawlee, but of actual Scrapy users.

With Scrapy, when we try to scrape all of the above things by installing `scrapy` and then creating a spider with the following script:

```python
import scrapy

class NetflixSpider(scrapy.Spider):
    name = 'netflix'
    allowed_domains = ['netflix.com']
    start_urls = ['https://www.netflix.com/title/80057281']

    def parse(self, response):
        title = response.css('.title-title::text').get()
        seasons = response.css('.test_dur_str::text').get()
        about = response.css('div.title-info-synopsis::text').get()

        yield {
            'title': title,
            'seasons': seasons,
            'about': about
        }
```

The GET produces a `200` result; still, we get an empty array in the result tab because Scrapy could not render the JavaScript.

When we scrape the same parameters from the same website using Crawlee using the following script:

```js

> const { PlaywrightCrawler, Dataset } = require('crawlee');

Reviewer: lets use ESM syntax in all examples, the rest of the docs are done that way too
```suggestion
import { PlaywrightCrawler, Dataset } from 'crawlee';
```

> async function pageFunction({ page, request }) {

Reviewer: also the way you have it now wont be typed properly, in fact this would fail to compile under strict TS config. you should inline this completely instead of defining a separate function, that way the type is inferred. or use [the router](https://crawlee.dev/api/playwright-crawler/function/createPlaywrightRouter).

await page.waitForSelector('.info-container');

    const title = await page.$eval('.title-title', node => node.innerText);
    const seasons = await page.$eval('.test_dur_str', node => node.innerText);
    const about = await page.$eval('.title-info-synopsis', node => node.innerText);

>     await Dataset.pushData({

Reviewer: either that or there is even a [context helper](https://crawlee.dev/api/basic-crawler/interface/BasicCrawlingContext#pushData) nowadays

>     await Dataset.pushData({

Author: hmmm, maybe examples too needs to be update: https://crawlee.dev/docs/examples/add-data-to-dataset

        url: request.url,
        title,
        seasons,
        about
    });
}

const crawler = new PlaywrightCrawler({
    requestHandler: pageFunction,

>     headless: true

Reviewer: it is the default

The simplest way to store them is via CLI:

```bash
scrapy crawl book -o data/example_data.csv
scrapy crawl book -o data/example_data.json
scrapy crawl book -o data/example_data.jsonl
scrapy crawl book -o data/example_data.xml
```

Crawlee has [simple data storage](https://blog.apify.com/crawlee-data-storage-types/) solution and supports multiple data storage options, including local storage, key-value stores, and datasets. It integrates storage directly into crawlers, making it easy to store data in JSON format or any structured form.

- You can use local storage with dataset

```js
const { PlaywrightCrawler, Dataset } = require('crawlee');

async function handlePage({ request, page }) {
    const title = await page.title();
    const price = await page.textContent('.price');
    
    // Store data in a local dataset
    await Dataset.pushData({
        url: request.url,
        title,
        price
    });
}

const crawler = new PlaywrightCrawler({
    requestHandler: handlePage,
});

> crawler.run(['http://amazon.com']);

Author: it does
